Let's learn a little bit
more about Linux and
what you need to know about this operating
system when working as a security analyst.
Linux is a very customizable
operating system.
Unlike other operating systems,
there are different versions available for
you to use.
These different versions of
Linux are called distributions.
You might also hear them called
distros or flavors of Linux.
It's essential for you to understand
the distribution that you're using
so you know what tools and
apps are available to you.
For example,
Debian is a distro that has different
tools than the Ubuntu distribution.
Let's use an analogy to
describe Linux distributions.
Think of the OS as a vehicle.
First, we'll start with its engine—that
would be the kernel. Just as the engine
makes a vehicle run, the kernel is the
most important component of the Linux OS.
Because the Linux kernel is open source,
anyone can take the kernel and
modify it to build a new distribution.
This is comparable to a vehicle
manufacturer taking an engine and
creating different types of vehicles:
trucks,
cars, vans, convertibles,
busses, airplanes, and so on.
These different types of vehicles can be
compared to different Linux distributions.
A bus is used to transport lots of people.
A truck is used to transport a large
number of goods across vast distances.
An aircraft transports
passengers or goods by air.
Just as each vehicle
serves its own purpose,
different distributions are used for
different reasons.
Additionally, vehicles all have different
components which distinguish them from
each other.
Aircrafts have control panels
with buttons and knobs.
Regular cars have four tires,
but trucks can have more.
Similarly, different Linux distributions
contain different preinstalled programs,
user interfaces, and much more.
A lot of this is based on
what the Linux user needs, but
some distros are also
chosen based on preference—the
same way a sports car
might be chosen as a vehicle.
The advantage of using Linux as
an OS is that you can customize it.
Distributions include the Linux kernel,
utilities,
a package management system, and
an installer.
We learned earlier that
Linux is open source, and
anyone can contribute to
adding to the source code.
That is how new distributions are created.
All distros are derived
from another distro, but
there are a few that are considered
parent distributions.
Red Hat® is the parent of CentOS, and
Slackware® is the parent of SUSE®.
Both Ubuntu and
KALI LINUX™ are derived from Debian.
As we continue, we're going to take a look
at some of the distributions most commonly
used by security analysts.
The more you understand
these distributions,
the easier your work will be.